# Developer documentation

- _Date_: 11/12/2025
- _Deciders_:
- _Status_: NEW
- _Outcome_:
- _Related Material_: [Issue](https://github.com/msupply-foundation/open-msupply/issues/7247), [Wiki](https://github.com/msupply-foundation/open-msupply/wiki)

## Background

A tool that would help the development team is having accessible clear documentation - hosted in a way that is easy to read and find the relevant information. This would include the README.md files already located throughout the OMS repository, and likely the contents of the OMS wiki. There are a few open questions on what the requirements and priorities are so I'm raising this to begin answering these.

Zola is used for the Open mSupply user docs, however here are some limitations in features - for example search functionality is not 'out of the box' and would require custom implementation.

## Purpose

The purpose of this KDD is to discuss the requirements for the developer documentation site, so that a suitable tool can be selected and implemented.

Before adding a ton of comments... let's schedule a meeting where the general outline can be discussed and documented here.

## \_Consi_derations

- Features vs simplicity to create and maintain
- Easy integration of the existing README.md files from the repository
- Integration of other documentation eg wiki, various google docs
- Keeping documentation close to code vs a separate repo or folder for documentation
- Who needs access to view these?
- Who needs access to edit these, and what tradeoffs are there? Eg. UI editing may have no review process and commit to the repo directly

### What features are must-haves vs nice-to-haves?

- Automation of updating the site when README.md contents are updated
- Automation of updating the navigation and file structure when files are created/moved/renamed
- Search functionality
- Navigation structure (sidebar, table of contents, etc)
- Images, diagrams and media support
- Importance of custom or polished UI
- API documentation
- PR process of preview of changes before publishing

## Requirements

## Options

All options will require some set up and configuration effort, and change the place where README.md files are stored and edited. The existing README.md files in the OMS repository can instead contain a link to the relevant page in the documentation site.

Other documentation in various places eg Google docs will likely need reformatting to the new documentation type and location regardless of the chosen option.

### Option 1: Zola

Use Zola as the static site generator for the developer documentation, similar to the user documentation.

A separate repository will be required to store the documentation. Will need to link to the relevant README.md files in the OMS repository.

_Pros:_

- Familiar tool for the team
- Lower set up effort for a basic documentation site
- Can use learnings/features from the user documentation site
- Can be easily versioned for different releases of OMS

_Cons:_

- Limited features or need custom implementation (eg search is custom in the user docs, no contents page support)
- No UI editing - will need to edit markdown files and commit to the repository = more time consuming, though we would have the option to require PR reviews or allow direct commits
- Requires a build and deploy pipeline

### Option 2: Wiki.js

Wiki.js is a free, open-source tool for wiki-style documentation sites. It has options to choose search engine, authentication options, comments etc.
A separate repository will be required to store the documentation. Will need to link to the relevant README.md files in the OMS repository.

_Pros:_

- Has search features available as a documentation site out of the box
- Sync to and from a git repository: use existing README.md files in OMS repository
- Edit directly in the UI and have changes pushed to the repository, or use a text editor with markdown
- Folders are generated by path name - no additional folders or structure needed
- Polished UI, easy navigation
- Configurable user rights for editing pages

_Cons:_

- Requires learning and set up of a new tool, will take some time to set up and configure
- May be more complex than needed for mostly internal documentation
- Risk of overwriting or drift if allowing edits in multiple places
- Requires a database, updates and backups

### Option 3: DokuWiki (OG Docs tool)

DokuWiki is an open source wiki tool that is used for OG mSupply documentation.

It can be set up without a database or repository, README.md files in the OMS repository could link to the relevant pages in DokuWiki.

_Pros:_

- Familiar tool for the team
- Edit directly in the UI by page or section
- Version history is easy to view in the UI
- Has search feature and automatic contents page generation
- Plugins and theming templates are available for extending functionality
- Configurable user rights for editing pages

_Cons:_

- Doesn't use traditional markdown. Plugins can convert markdown to DokuWiki format but may lose some formatting
- No native github integration. Would need to use plugins which may be fragile with DokuWiki versions
- Could have significant time investment to generate initial documentation pages from existing README.md files, and harder to move away from DokuWiki later if needed

## Decision
